well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so I guess we're going to talk
about food stamp loopholes because
apparently that's a thing before we get
into this we'll go ahead and hit the big
numbers and explain the SNAP program
SNAP program provides food assistance to
40 million Americans a lot about half of
that 40 million are children forty four
percent it costs sixty eight billion
dollars a year sounds like a lot of
money but it is to feed 40 million
people so what does it take to get on
this program okay so you have to be at
your gross pay has to be at a hundred
and thirty percent of the national
poverty line or below the fact that it
is a national poverty line becomes
important when we get to this loophole
so if you are a single mom with two kids
you can make about twenty seven thousand
dollars a year
gross your take-home pay your net has to
be a hundred percent of the poverty line
of below which means that single mom
with two kids can bring home about
$1,700 a month depending on where you
live in the United States you're looking
at that number seventeen hundred dollars
a month for a mom and two kids going man
that would be really tight but maybe it
could be done if these circumstances
were in their favor or you're looking at
it like even if you could get an
apartment here for that because cost of
living varies across the United States
that's the loophole that's what he wants
to close some states have adjusted these
limits because the national poverty line
does not reflect the cost of living
where they are that's the loophole
the federal government is extremely
aware that there are cost-of-living
differences this is not a loophole it's
a function of design the feds have their
own system for dealing with
cost-of-living adjustments for their
people
all you vets get ready to explain
questions about bah so the military has
thing called basic allowance for housing
now if you are an e-1 and guys I
understand an e-1 is probably not living
off base but if you're an e-1 you'll get
about six hundred sixty bucks a month
extra if you're stationed at Fort Rucker
Alabama if you're working up at the
Pentagon and you're living in DC you
will get one thousand eight hundred and
fifty dollars a month extra the feds are
very well aware of this issue it's not a
loophole somebody right now why are you
bringing the military up because in 2013
there were 23,000 active-duty families
on snap that's why so you can save that
they're lazy bums routine for somebody
else okay
so the next thing that comes up is
always well what about the fraud fine
we'll talk about the fraud too let's say
one out of ten people on the program are
committing fraud at six point eight
billion dollars you know I'll do you one
better one out of five okay so thirteen
point seven billion dollars that's
almost as much as we give in welfare to
oil and gas companies I don't care I do
not care
now the actual number of money wasted on
fraud within snap is 592 million dollars
that's pretty low it's actually one of
the least fraud ridden federal programs
in existence 592 million if you were to
break that down per person per month by
the number of people in the program to
show what it costs to absorb that fraud
it's a dollar and 23 cents on a hundred
and $26 per client subsidy doesn't
really seem like a lot does it keep in
mind we've paid 102 million dollars for
the President of the United States to go
golfing before we start cutting into
programs that might affect children
being fed maybe he should stay off the
golf course just a little bit this isn't
a loophole
this is Donald Trump doing what Donald
Trump does he's cooking the bugs cooking
the books before the election he wants
to be able to say look at the number of
people I got off food stamps look how
great the economy is simply
disqualifying them doesn't actually
change the fact that they're living at
the poverty line the issue is not the
number of people on food stamps and the
cost to the taxpayers that's not really
the issue
the issue is we have 40 million
Americans living at the poverty line
that's the issue anyway it's just a
fault
we all have a good night